now press Advocates say at least 61
journalists and media workers have died
in the war on Gaza the committee to
protect journalists says the first month
of the conflict was the worst for media
workers in more than 30 years monasa
saof was one of the latest casualties
the freelance cameraman was working for
the Turkish andelo agency was killed on
Friday in an Israeli air strike along
with several members of his family let's
speak now with one of his friends and
colleagues hin kdari who joins us on the
line the phone line now from De abala in
Gaza hind of course we talk to you every
day several times every day in your role
as a correspondent talking about what's
happening on the ground we'd just like
to talk to you this time about your
experiences uh as a journalists in a war
when all around you your friends
colleagues and fellow journalists are
being killed and and wounded and monasa
as I say was a friend of yours first of
all can you tell us what happened to
him first of first of all I would like
to mention
that the only or the first friend I lose
in 60 days he's maybe the third or the
fifth very close colleague that we lost
M stayed in the Gaza Strip in the neing
area um and refused to evacuate with us
to the South because his his his family
was was injured so two of his brother
brothers were injured Ed in an air
strike when they were working covering
on the Gaza Strip and and he chose to
stay with his brothers because it was
before The alifa Invasion and and the
the the situation was very critical and
he was trying his best to find a doctor
to do a surgery for his brother so he
stayed in Al hospital because it was
operating at that time so then um what
happened was St in Gaza he he he covered
a lot of of of of of story a lot of
pictures and especially after all the
destruction that happened in Gaza he was
one of the few journalists who took
those photos m a couple of days ago was
was was was killed with an air strike on
like on his house in front of his house
where he was he was with his brother and
his cousin he was injured he he bled for
30 minutes and there were no ambulances
and he died because there was no one to
rescue him or say it must be just so
hard it must be so hard hind do you
recall do you recall can I ask if you
recall what your last conversation with
him was do you remember that well the
last conversation he texted me like a
couple two hours before he he was killed
he told me that oh my God you have a new
t-shirt because he knows that we
evacuated with two shirts and he on on
on on my Instagram story wearing a new
hoodie but I did not have time to to
answer him I did not have time to reply
back to his text he used to text me
every single day I'm alive with a happy
smiley emoji and I was always telling
him take care M we love you we we
believe in you and and stay safe but we
feel so sad that we were not able to go
to the north to give him the last
goodbye to even bury him we don't know
if who buried him where is he buried we
don't know anything and it's not only M
it's his brother too and weeks before
this target his father was killed and
other family members were killed he he
was working after his whole family was
killed when they targeted his house M
was a very nice person he was very
kindhearted he was always like
initiating to do a Ste tea coffee
sandwiches when we were stuck in Gaza
working before we evacuated he was a
very kind hearted person and everyone
loved him and there's a very uh famous
real on his Instagram feeding kittens he
was this person who cares about everyone
even animals and kittens and he was a
very beloved person and and we're
looking we're looking at some of the
photographs of his on the screen right
now I me it must be it's so emotional
isn't it and we do appreciate you just
explaining how it is for you and it's so
hard yet you carry on doing this
important work and your fellow
journalist too and as he was too can you
tell us how it is for you as you said
about doing this work under such intense
pressure and immense personal
risk it's very hard for us and it's
heartbreaking every single day we wake
up on explosions we barely sleep we
barely have a couple of of
hours sometimes we sleep from the amount
of like we're we're very tired I think
you heard an explosion this is like what
we are hearing all the day but at the
end of the day we feel that we need to
continue we feel like we need to report
we need to tell the stories there are a
lot of stories that have been voices
that have been silenced that have been
killed but we're still here and we will
still we have the ability to carry the
message of all of these people it's very
heartbreaking and and and we're
dehydrated today we did not have any
chch in the market for anything to keep
us standing and going on but it's it's
it's fixed now until now we had zero
food we only have had like couple of tea
water all of the situa all of the like
surrounding situation is hard but
there's something that's keeping us
going on I don't really know what it's
it's this something thing is we are
always like negotiating and talking with
each other like how are we still
covering how are we still editing how
are we still doing all of this job and
there's something that's motivating us
every single day to keep on telling the
stories and we believe that we're very
important and we hold a very huge weight
on our shoulders to carry the message of
all of these millions of people in Gaza
right
now have you ever thought of giving it
up I mean nobody would blame you if you
did and and just sort of seeking your
own
safety I think me for me as h no I I
don't I won't give up I don't think like
I'm going to give up I'm very passionate
about what I'm doing we lived very hard
days in Gaza we went through this
Sal being displaced and we have been
displaced for more than than three or
four times right now and now the Israeli
forces are calling us to evacuate to the
South but we are in the
South but with all of this like being
worried about our families being worried
about ourselves continuous explosions
there's something letting me not to give
up and I swear I don't know what's this
but I love Palestine and I love Goda
these people and I love my country and I
think this is the only thing that's
keeping me going despite everything and
despite the danger and despite the risk
and risking our lives but to be honest
like after all of this destruction and
after all of this killing I feel like
there's no meaning for life anymore and
is this I want to spend the last minutes
and spend my life reporting even if it's
going to be like the last thing I'm
going to do in my life I'm dedicating
this and I'm dedicating my life to
Palestine and most War journalists you
know have a way out of where the war is
taking place you know to find some
respite but you do not uh and you
continue to tell the story of
unspeakable Terror that would otherwise
not reach the world we appreciate your
work and and your time now thanks for
joining
us